 	 I.	Summary  
Due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, remote work has become the preferred working condition. Many employers have found it challenging to transition back to in-person work. Remote work allows the benefits of diversity, inclusion, and financial savings. However, this may be at the cost of reinforcing gender norms and potential mental burnout of employees, especially for younger employees. Considering these factors, this paper focuses on determining 1) What factors affect employees' perceived productivity in remote working conditions? and 2) How do employers benefit from remote work systems? 
The data originated from two surveys conducted by the authorities of New South Wales to understand remote workers' experiences during the COVID-19 pandemic. The first survey was held in August and September 2020, and the second in 2021. The datasets were combined based on similar questions, resulting in 29 columns. Perceived productivity was the output variable and was categorised into three class variables: low, same, and high. The input variables were a mix of numeric (i.e., percentage of remote work in 2020 and preferred remote work percentage in 2020) and categorical variables (i.e., gender and occupation description). The data was split into training (70%) and validation (30%) subsets. Any rows with missing values, columns deemed unnecessary, and individuals 67 years old or older were removed. Categorical variables were encoded to numbers, and any scaled responses were transformed into ordinal scales. Outliers were identified using the 3-standard-deviation rule and replaced with column medians. The final data, after transformation, contained 2,804 rows and 29 columns. 
This study used random forests, feature importance analysis, and partial dependence plots to determine what factors influence employees' productivity when working remotely. Random forests were used to classify perceived productivity into the three output classes. When testing, the random forest obtained an accuracy of 60,69% on the validation set, 77,42% on the training set, a mean absolute error with a score of 0,52, and an ordinal accuracy of 83,39%. Attempts were made to solve the issue of the class imbalance seen within the random forest model. However, none of the other models or sampling techniques created better results. Feature importance was used to discover the top ten factors influencing productivity in remote work settings. Finally, partial dependence was conducted to better understand the connection certain factors had on productivity; this was done by isolating the relationship between one factor and productivity.  

The final results for the top factors that influence productivity in a remote work setting in descending order are the following: employees with a strong preference for remote work, age of employees, the number of hours a day employees spend remote working, in-person commuting times, employees who found collaboration easier with remote work, employees who had experience with remote work during 2020, how many hours an employee can use with family or on domestic responsibilities. Deeper analysis found that an individual's occupation (i.e., Managerial or Technician) influenced their attitude towards remote work.  

Overall, productivity rose with remote work for Managerial Positions, Corporate and Public Sector Professionals, and Sales Workers. It is suggested that for these occupations to improve productivity with virtual work further, employers should promote flexible work agreements, invest in tools that allow easier online collaboration, encourage work-life balance, aid employees in what barriers make remote work difficult, and provide tailored support for different age groups.  


The entire report is present in the repository titled Future of Remote work Report
